Azure Market Place:-
This place is used to have all the services that azure provides
Resource Group:-
Resource group is used for logical grouping of the Resources.
Suppose we have a virtual machine, Database, Virtual Network we can assign these services
in a single resource group. so that we can access all our resources in a single place.
If we dont the resource we can delete all the resouces at a time.
Ex:- Suppose we have a multiple departments. we can group the resources according
to the resource.
After creating virtual Machine.We can Login into the virtual machine through RDP, 
If the server is windows based one or we can login into the virtual machine through SSh
if the server is a Linux based one.
To access the server machine. We need a port called 80. Through the 80 port only we can
access the virtual machine in the internet. This can be enabled in the network security
group. after enabling we can send request and get the response from the virtual machine.
If we want to access the web server we need to install in the virtual machine.
Goto-> search bar->search server manager Goto Add Role. Choose role based.
Web server(IIS)Internet information services.This services is provided in the windows 
server for enabling the internet based services.
Sometimes we may forgot to delete the vm which we have created. We may have a budget
of the resources we create in the virtual. So the budget should not exceed. for that
we can create a budget for the resources we create.
For creating a Budget. Goto the Subscription->Select Budget Tab.
Give the Budget name and set the actual budget ex:-80%. when we exceed 80% it will send 
a alert to us that we have exceeded the budget.
We have two disks in the virtual machine when we create it.
So the OS is installed in the C drive of the vm.So the disks in the C drive, we be remain.
so please provide the important data in the c drive.
The temporary disk is lost when we terminate the instance.sometimes while maintainces
in the server the data in the temporary disk will be lost.
Creating the Linux VM:-
Same process as we created the windows server vm. Here the default ssh is enabled.
Because to connect the linux vm we need ssh port to be enabled.
Linux vm can be accessed through putty.
Drives:-
SSD:- Solid State Drives
HHD:-Hybrid hard Drives.
HHD:- It is used for Backup and not for critical workloads.
SSD:- It is used for Dev/Test Environment.
Premium SSD:-It is used for the Production Environment.
Ultra Disk:- It is used for the Database such as oracle, MySql. Where we access a largre
number of IOPS(Input and Output Operations).
Premium SSD is not supported in some of the virtual machine.
So we need to select the VM which support the Premium SSD for the Production based environment
Understanding of IOPS and Throughput:-
IOPS means Input and Ouput Operations per second.
When we launch the SQL Server in the windows vm. In the SQL server we will do more
read and write operations in the server. So the OS disk will play a key role in this 
operations. It will connect the SQL server which is installed in the OS disk drive.
So the OS disk drive will perform the Input and Output Operations.If the Input and 
Output operations are more then the OS disk drive will be slow in performing
the operation. So If the IOPS is more then this process will perform effeciently.
Throughput:-
When we want to store files like videos and pictures in the disk.i.e the throughput plays a 
main role in the storing the files.if the throughput is less then accessing of large
files from the disk will be hard. So if the throughtput is more then accessing the
videos files will be easy.
SnapShot:-
We can take the snapshot of the disk which we installized in the one VM to other vm.
This can be done by creating a snapshot.
When we initialize the disk in second vm there will be option of attaching the snapshop.
It is very easy to copy the disk from one vm to another vm through snapshot.
Shared Disk:-
We can share a single disk to two vm. By attaching the same disk to two vm.
It is important to stop the first vm when we attach the disk to second vm. If we
dont stop the first vm and attach the disk to second vm we will get the error.
UnManaged Disk:-
All Disks are managed by azure when we create the azure vm.
So we can manage the disk by check as No when we create the disk. It will store in the
Storage account as blob file.
Custom Script Extension:-
We need to manually enable the IIS in the webserver. This can be done through a custom 
Shell Script.
First step we need to create a storage account. In that we need to place in the container to
access the script file.  In creating the vm we will have a advance setting. In the
Extension tab we can add the script in the extension this shell script can run automatically
and run in the vm and installed.
Azure Web App Service:-
It is a Paas service where we can launch our web app in the vm. We dont want to create
and manage the vm. It will automatically create and managed by the azure.
we can trace the application log and web server logs in the app service of azure.
we can create our custom domain in the web app service.
so to have a custom domain we need to own our domain from any of the service provider.
ex:-godaddy.
after owning the domain we can link to our web app.
in web app service->custom domain we can link it.
